Hello everyone and welcome back to this
video. Um in the previous video we took
a look at how we fine-tuned our Llama
LLM and uh in this video we will use
this fine-tuned model. Uh first we will
load it uh and then we will generate
predictions over the validation set. We
will compare the predictions that we uh
generate with the ones from the base
model and we will calculate the root
scores and see if fine-tuning actually
helped improve these scores. So let's
see how we can do this.
So loading the data set logic is exactly
the same. Uh we will be even using the
same methods that we used uh in
training. So we will not be uh paying
much attention here. We will start from
loading uh the pft model that we
trained. So if you go uh to the
notebook, you'll see we have the
evaluate piff model method. This one
takes the configuration and the adapters
name. So um we concluded the previous
video by showing that we have pushed the
adapters uh to hugging face and these
are only the adapters. This is not the
full model. Now, what we want to do is
we want to load back uh our fine-tuned
model by downloading the base model and
the adapters and we combine them
together. So, uh this is what we're
doing here. First, we use the setup
model and tokenizer method that we've
been using throughout this week. It's
the same method. However, this time we
will be applying quantization, but we
will not be applying LoRa. We don't want
to um uh initialize random Lora matrices
or new Lora matrices. Instead we want to
use our own adapters. So we will keep it
false for now. This means this is just
the base model but quantized and then we
call in this uh method from the pift
model class. Uh you get that using the
pift library. So we give it the model
itself. So this is the loaded model
actually and you give it the adapter's
name. Uh in this case my adapter's name
is going to be uh this full thing like
the my u username followed by uh the
name or the identifier of the adapter.
So if you pass these here, uh what this
is going to do, it's going to load these
adapters and uh it's going to give you
the model um after plugging in the
adapter. So this is basically the model
that we fine-tuned in the previous
video.
And then since we are doing generation,
we uh set the padding site to left and
then we call in this method which is
again from the previous uh from the
previous uh videos. That's why I I said
it's exactly the same logic. So nothing
new here. And then uh we call the
generate predictions. We give it the
model, the tokenizer and uh your data
sets, your validation data set, the
instruction, the batch size. So let's
take a look at what's happening here.
So this is the definition uh of this
method. Uh basically what's happening
here is we uh create the prompts. Okay.
So there are two ways that you can
generate predictions. Um either by using
the hugging face pipeline. This one you
just give it the text itself and it has
to do everything for you. You don't need
to worry about anything. Or you do the
tokenization yourself and you uh put
things in batches and pass them to the
model just the same way you would do it
um in training. And I think this way is
easier. So we will not be doing any
tokenization here. Instead we are just
creating the prompts ourselves
and applying the check template. We took
a look at this u in the data
prep-processing uh video. So the end of
this, you're going to have a list that
contains the the prompts, the actual
text. So no tokenization here. It's just
the text itself. And then you call in
just this pipeline. You give it the
model and the tokenizer because behind
the scenes, it will have to do the
tokenization for you. And uh yeah, you
just we're going to do this in batches.
So u we loop over our input inputs in
sizes of batch size, which is four in
this case. And uh we give the pipeline
just four uh prompts at a time and then
it will uh give us the uh four outputs
and that's it. Then we just compute uh
the root scores uh in the same normal
way that we did it for the baseline.
So u the code that I showed here u is
basically very simple and it performs
all of these things. Uh so we loaded the
model which is very easy. Easy download
the base model, plug in the adapters,
generate predictions. Hugging face makes
it very easy. You don't even you don't
even need to do any tokenization. Just
give it the text itself and it will
handle everything for you. And then uh
the metrics computation um is actually
very simple too. So uh let's run this.
Um so for me to run this I need my
hugging face username. I'm setting this
that as a secret inab. I'm passing my uh
adapters name and this will give me uh
scores and predictions. If you let this
run, it will download the model. Plug in
the adapters. It's going to take like 3
minutes to uh evaluate 200 samples and
then uh you get the scores and the
predictions. Uh in my case, they are
stored here. However, I will download
them and I will make them available for
you uh at the GitHub repo.
So um this is a simple visualization of
the scores um baseline versus the
fine-tuned one. You can see um in all
the three variation of the root uh
metric fine-tuned is uh better. So it's
always higher but so that's good news.
It shows that uh the model is actually
getting better at this or capturing the
structure or the tone of the uh like of
your data set. And uh yeah, let's take a
look at some predictions like from the
baseline and and the finetune and see if
they are actually different in any way.
So I loaded the predictions uh locally.
Uh I ran this on on collab and it gave
me the predictions. So uh I included
them in the repo for you in case you
want to check them out. And now I'm
loading them. So uh let's see uh some
examples. So this is the first sample in
the validation set. This is the
reference meaning this is the truth
summary from the data set. This is how
the baseline responded and this is how
the fine-tuned model responded. So you
can see the fine-tuned um answer here is
very close to um the base one. Actually
it's just a one one token difference.
And you can see it's short and straight
to the point exactly how this data set
is. While the baseline tends to output
longer sequences. Here's another sample.
Uh you can see the same pattern. Things
are short in the reference. So same here
for fine-tuned baseline again tends to
um output larger larger sequences. So
that's why um rouge scores actually got
better because now your fine-tuned model
is is following the same uh format uh of
the data set.
So what we've shown here is how to
change the inner behavior of the model
itself by fine-tuning it without having
to do any prompt engineering or we
didn't have to include an instruction
telling the model that uh yeah you have
to keep it short or or things like that.
So the behavior of the model actually uh
changed and now it's capturing um the
structure of our data set. So that has
been a long journey. So throughout this
week um we showed everything uh from the
beginning how to load your data set do
tokenization do the padding and then uh
yeah you fine-tune your model you
evaluate this. So it's it's not an easy
task. So when someone tells you u we
want to fine-tune an LLM there are a lot
of things uh throughout this process
that you have to get correctly.
Sometimes even um one mistake in one of
these steps um it's not very easy to
catch. So um while I was implementing
this um I had to do a lot of things uh
sometimes I had problems with padding
for example. Um so imagine that um for
example you set up the attention mask in
a wrong way where you allow padding
tokens to be uh included in the
computation. So the attention mask is
always once. Um it's not easy to notice
that because the loss is still going to
go down. Uh it's just that it's not
going to be as better as it normally is.
Um so it's not very easy to catch. So
yeah the process is long contains a lot
of uh details and uh yeah even sometimes
when you miss one of them it's not easy
to catch. So uh yeah do it step by step
try to understand everything that is
happening and uh yeah try to fix the
problems as you see them. So that's it
for this video. I hope you found that
useful and I'll see you in the next one.